---
title: Best 2FA apps that respect your privacy
date: 2024-11-30 12:00:00
categories: [Review, Apps]
tags: [privacy, apps, 2fa, review]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---

**Two-factor authentication (2FA)** is an extra layer of security when we try to log in to specific websites. It’s used to enhance your protection and is highly recommended. At the same time, there are various 2FA methods like hardware keys, Apps, SMS, etc. Today, we will cover the Apps. 
Authenticator apps implement a security standard called  Time-Based One-Time Password, or TOTP. It’s a 6-digit code (usually)  generated by your authenticator app every 30 seconds. 
Even if a hacker gets one six-digit code, there is no way for them to reverse that code to get the original secret or otherwise be able to predict what any future codes might be. 
To put it simply, this is how 2FA  works.

1. **Something you know:** This is typically your password, which you enter as usual.
2. **Something you have:** This is often a code sent to your phone (via SMS or a specialized authentication app) or generated by a hardware token. You enter this code after your password.
3. **Something you are:** This category is more advanced and might include the biometric pattern of a fingerprint, an iris scan, or a voiceprint. 
#### Disclaimer and  Criteria for the Chosen Apps 
The apps I have chosen here are based on the following criteria: 
* They must be **FOSS** (free and open source), allow for transparency, and enable other developers to review, audit, and contribute to the codebase. 
* Must not sync to a third-party cloud sync service to back up should provide alternative backup options that prioritize user privacy and data sovereignty.

> Disclaimer: This is based on my research and experience, so always consider researching yourself before choosing the apps listed. I am not affiliated with any of them, solely based on my recommendation. Cheers. 

### List of Apps 
**Ente-auth:** It is a free and open-source app that stores and generates TOTP tokens on your mobile device. It can be used with an online account to back up and sync your tokens across your devices (and access them via a web interface) in a secure, end-to-end, encrypted fashion. Furthermore, it can also be used offline on a single device with no account necessary. 
#### Features 
- Cross-platform 
- Secure backup 
- Offline mode 
- Multi-device synchronization 
- Import  and export tokens
Links: [PlayStore](https://medium.com/r/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fplay.google.com%2Fstore%2Fapps%2Fdetails%3Fid%3Dio.ente.auth) [F-Droid](https://medium.com/r/?url=https%3A%2F%2Ff-droid.org%2Fpackages%2Fio.ente.auth%2F) [AppStore](https://medium.com/r/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fapps.apple.com%2Fus%2Fapp%2Fente-authenticator%2Fid6444121398) 

**Aegis  Authenticator:** It is a free and open-source app for [Android](https://getaegis.app/) to manage your 2-step verification tokens for your online services. Unlike many alternatives, Aegis  Authenticator operates completely offline/locally but includes the option to export your tokens for backup. 
#### Features 
- Compatible with Google authenticator 
- Import and export tokens  (different ways) 
- Export (encrypted and plaintext) 
- Automatic backups on your device 
- Offline mode Is only for Android users.

**TOFU:** is An easy-to-use, open-source, two-factor authentication app designed specifically for iOS. Tofu works with all services that provide two-factor authentication using the HOTP and TOTP algorithms. It does not require a network or cellular connection and can be used in airplane mode. 
#### Features 
- Import and export tokens (different ways) 
- Support for counter- and time-based one-time passwords 
- Offline mode 
- All your account details are safely stored in the [iOS keychain](https://medium.com/@omar.saibaa/local-storage-in-ios-keychain-668240e2670d). (Read [Omar  Saibaa](https://medium.com/@omar.saibaa?source=user_popover)’s article for more)

Link: [AppStore](https://medium.com/r/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fapps.apple.com%2Fus%2Fapp%2Ftofu-authenticator%2Fid1082229305) 

Based on the above criteria, you can choose your best app for 2FA; even if you use one that doesn’t respect your privacy, you can easily switch to these very quickly.